---
title: 'War Mage'
desc: Beams of Light
embed: lptqz7
---

Designing and implementing War Mage is likely the project that I am most proud of. As one of my
most recent projects, I took many of the lessons I've learned from my previous experiences and
put melded it all together into one product.

War Mage excels at dishing out massive amounts of burst damage with long cooldown skills.
However, what she has in raw damage output, she lacks in mobility and safety measures. Unlike 
all other classes in the game, they spend most of their time standing still and charging their spells.
If they're not careful and spend too much time charging, enemies may run away from their attacks, so
players must cast wisely.

Furthermore, War Mages are incentivized to stand inside of a magical field called Flux, which massively
increases their damage stats while inside of the circle. Flux combined with their charge-skill
based kit leaves them incredibly vulnerable to enemy attacks. However, players can work around
this hurdle by proper positioning, boss knowledge, and making full use of their kit. War Mages
can also hold down a key to charge up Radiance, a stacking mechanism that allows them to skip
the charge animations of certain attacks once they have enough stacks. 

Since their long cooldowns, cast times, and lack of mobility are made up by massive damage potential,
players derive a huge amount of satisfaction from getting off the perfect skill rotation.

If you would like to read more about my design choices for the skill kit and more information on my
choices for visual effects and sound design, check out this link.