# Intro
As a medium to show off my process, I'll be using my redesign of the War Mage class. It's one of my most recent projects as well as one of the most rewarding projects I've undertaken.

# Conception
War Mage was a class that was often forgotten about prior to its redesign. Hardly anyone played it beside a passionate few players. I decided to give it a complete overhaul since I felt that its thematic was appealing and the current core gameplay loop was lackluster. While game had its fair share of mages or casters, there weren't any classes that had fulfilled the fantasy of a light-based mage. War Mages had stationary turret-like gameplay that used lasers and beams of light to blast their enemies. I didn't want to completely change the identity of the class since there were a handful of players that loved its archetype and thematic. I made complete overhauls to gameplay kits before, and while they were usually successful, certain passionate players who enjoyed the original gameplay loop felt that the redesign strayed too far from its predecessor. Learning from that experience, I made sure to keep War Mage similar to its original thematic and gameplay loop while introducing new factors that reinforce and spice up its core mechanics.

One of the key components to War Mage was an ability called Fast Forward. When used, Fast Forward granted a buff that reduced all their active skill cooldowns by 80% and boosted their damage stats. While the buff was exhilarating and liberating to players at first, an experienced user quickly learned the most optimal rotation revolved around spamming the same two skills over and over for the highest damage output. Outside of the buff's active window, War Mages spent the majority of their time holding down the left click button during Laser Ray; a skill that made the player stand still and fire off tons of lasers at their enemies in front of them. While Laser Ray was satisfying and powerful it was uninteresting and felt stale and repetitive due to the amount of time players spent in the skill just holding down left click. These two skills were the key factors in their kit. While they had plenty of other abilities, they were primarily useful for building up stacks and were essentially just accessories to the main two skills. Finally, War Mage had a passive skill called Force Shield that had a chance of activating when they were hit which would temporarily grant them a buff that increased their damage and decreased their damage taken. This was problematic and antithetical to the identity of the class since it rewarded players for taking damage.

These were the three main problems plaguing War Mage prior to the redesign

# Gameplay Design
First, I set my goals. It was incredibly important for me to keep the identity of the class intact. That meant that War Mage still needed to have energy and light beams for attacks and stationary turret-like gameplay. Then, I needed to address Fast Forward by removing it from the kit entirely as that single buff dictated the rotation of the class. I decided that it was more important to play into existing thematic as a slow stationary caster than it was to keep Fast Forward. 
Furthermore, I decided to keep Laser Ray since it was such an iconic skill for the class. However, since players used it so often, it diminished the impact of the skill. To counter that, I decided to reduce its cast duration and increase its cooldown to make each individual cast more powerful.
Since those two key skills were getting changed or removed, I needed a completely new gameplay loop. The game is incredibly fast paced and most other caster classes were still moderately fast. Knowing this, I chose to go the opposite direction and give players a class that was much slower and more deliberate with each cast.
Force Shield also needed to be reworked since it rewarded bad gameplay.
Additionally, I elected to give the War Mage deliberate gaps in its skill rotation by increasing cooldowns across the board to feed into the burst-mage archetype.

I went through many drafts, designs, and prototypes that spanned across two and a half years. While planning War Mage's redesign, I had to change course to work on encounter design, progression systems, and other class redesigns. During that time, I learned a lot of lessons and revisited the document once every few months before finally landing on a design that I was happy with. When I finished the final draft, I brought up the draft document up to a few players who were passionate about War Mage to get their opinions. While it was incredibly helpful to get player feedback, I stayed away from implementing their ideas exactly as they said as I needed to stay true to the original goals and principles I set at the beginning.

While there were many changes, I will only cover the main points. Along with the original goal, I increased the cooldown of all the main skills to make each cast more impactful. This gave the class an opening in the rotation where players didn't have anything to do. To fill that gap, I introduced a new charging system that would serve as the main mechanic of the gameplay loop. Each main skill can now be charged, the longer the player charges the skill, the more damage it will deal up to a maximum of three charges. In between burst rotations, War Mage would be able to charge up Radiance, a stacking resource passively by holding down left click while not using an active skill. They can consume Radiance to release a fully charged main skill. This rewarded players who made the most out of their burst windows and gave players a more methodical approach to their kit. Laser Ray got its cooldown and damage increased. I also introduced a maximum cast time of 5 seconds and made it build up Radiance to maintain its importance in the kit. I completely redesigned Force Shield into Flux, which created a small field that increased the player's magic damage as long as they stand inside of it. This incentivizes players to plan their positioning ahead of time and set up their burst rotations. This also inherently made the class more risky as their lack of mobility combined with the small field of Flux created a situation where players needed to play smartly to actually utilize their massive burst.

This culminated in a completely new gameplay loop that still payed homage to the original identity of the class. There are clear weaknesses in the class. However, they can be overcome with player skill expression that goes beyond how well or fast you can press buttons; as a mage should be. Players who master the class can get a huge amount of satisfaction from firing off the perfect skill rotation, blowing away enemy health bars.

# Visual Design

In early drafts, I slightly drifted away from light-energy based attacks and laser beams and landed at a more astronomic starry thematic. However, learning from my past mistakes, the final draft leaned into the original thematic to create a powerful light archmage. 

The Dragon Nest always had some great effects or skill concepts but there were always areas that could be improved. The original War Mage used highlighter yellow and orange as its color palette. The colors were painful on the eyes and were far too saturated. For the redesign, I chose to use white and light gold which I felt more was more in tune with "light magic." 

Most of the spells were completely visually redesigned. Making the most out of War Mage's aesthetic, the skills revolved around manifesting light into different kinds of spells rather than just laser beams. This resulted in javelins of light, floating exploding orbs of energy, pillars of light, raw uninhibited light energy bursting out, and of course, lasers. I also added magic conjuring circles to frame spells and details such as dust particles and smoke for explosions and swirling light energy to illustrate the collection of magical power.

Another point that was extremely lacking in the past was the usage of camera effects. I gave the most powerful skills impact frames. This detail put more weight on the spell. Alongside the camera shake, radial blur, and impact frames, I added dynamic camera FoV effects that emphasized the power of each spell.

Since the gameplay loop involved charge stages for main skills, I used key indicator visual effects like flashing pulses and rings of energy that show when certain stages of charge power were achieved.

# Sound Design
Just like the visual design it was difficult to get the right sounds since it was very easy to fall into the pitfall of misconstruing light magic for holy magic. I had to combine sounds that are heavy for the explosions alongside light sounds for well, the light effects. Just like the visual effects at each charge stage I mentioned earlier, I also added distinct sound effects for those charge stages.

I needed to evoke certain feelings for each effect. For laser effects, I gathered a library of ringing, spacey, and pulsating sound effects. Explosions needed to be heavy and filled with bass but still maintained the energy-based effects that separate it from traditional explosions. For the raw output of light energy spell, I put together echoing charging sounds for the formation of the magic circles and wind sounds for the gushing light.

My favorite skill is the javelin of light. The skill hurls a powerful spear of condensed light energy at the enemy that explodes on contact, creating orbs of light that can be detonated. Picking out the right sound effects for this skill was an absolute pleasure. I needed sounds that were like warping reality to depict the condensing of energy for the javelin formation, a heavy weighted explosion, and space-like sounds for the orbs that formed afterward.

